[Bci]Little of Jashin and his ways is known to those who aren't his followers, so named "Jashinists". According to these cultists, Jashin demands nothing less than utter death and destruction. These individuals framesl this doctrine as a public service, saving people from the fear of death by killing them. One's neighbours are the most ideal target, but a "neighbour" requires more than physical proximity; one may spend most of their time with another, but never consider them to be their neighbour, perhaps feeling hatred instead of any form of kinship. Jashinists should always pray to Jashin before a fight, asking for a "good kill", praying for forgiveness if not prayed for, if unsuccessful, or are not allowed to/unable to kill, or else the kill will not count in the eyes of their lord and may even result in repremended and retracted favor of their diety.
[Bci]In order to even be noticed by this aforementioned Diety, they must take 100 lives of the weak, 10 lives of the strong, or take the life of 5 avid followers of Jashin whom carry his favor. These tolls does not have to be individually met as long as the value of 100 lives have been taken, meaning that the strong (other player characters or NPC's of equal or higher Potential) are worth 10 of the weak, and Jashinists each are worth 2 of the strong given their valuable service to Jashin. Once this condition is met, Jashinists will recieve divine orders to seek out, isolate, and recruit the individual into their flock.
[Cib]Once one joins, they recieve the "Jashinism" Jutsu Skill, which begins at 1/10th of their Kill Count, and a Jashin Necklace as a holy symbol, signifying their devotion to Jashin that they most always wear and protect, as this is what they must pray to as they now must follow the strict doctrine of their new faith. Every season, they must offer the value of at least 10 lives per season to Jashin, spending 10 minutes of prayer before and after the kill. While offering prayer, the follower is treated as "Stunned" until finished or canceled, however, one should never end their worship prematurely. Proper prayer will add +1 to their Jashinism score, or +10 for strong sacrifices. Failing to offer proper prayer or make the blessed sacrifice to Jashin will require 1 hour of repentance or result in -10 to their Jashinism score, regardless of the sacrifice. As ones faith and offerings to Jashin grows, as do the their lords blessings, granting divine revelations and power, gaining hidden and forbidden techniques to the strong and devoted, as well as taketh away from the weak and slothish.