⟦ Shinobi Way ⟧ Contributor: Fire Daimyo
⟦ How To Play ⟧
⟦ Character Development ⟧ UPDATE CHARACTER SHEETS REGULARLY!
Nature Affinity Your character may choose 2 of any of the 5 elemental nature affinities. Fire (火, Hi), Wind (風, Kaze), Lightning (雷, Kaminari), Earth (土, Tsuchi), Water (水, Mizu). If your Shinobi’s Nature matches their Village’s Nature, or Clan’s Nature, they get a 5% boost to Ninjutsu usage of that nature. Using Ninjutsu that does not match your Ninja’s own nature reduces its effect by 10%. If your Shinobi only has 1 elemental affinity, gain an extra 5% effectiveness to ninjutsu of that nature. For example, all an Sasukebi was only proficient with fire nature, it would be +20% effective (Village, clan, clan effect, and only proficient nature). To become proficient in a new element, you must fill 20 Jutsu Bank slots with ninjutsu of that nature.
Starting Gear All shinobi start with the following gear. Anyone without room to carry this gear may instead get the equivalent worth of Ryō.
All: (1) Headband & (2) Kunai Sand: (3) Senbon Earth: (3) Shuriken Cloud: (3) Senbon Leaf: (3) Shuriken Mist: (3) Senbon Iron: (3) Shuriken Whirlpool: (3) Shuriken Snow: (3) Senbon
EXP/Experience Otherwise known as Skill Points, these are the points you spend to upgrade the following skills, mostly earned from doing Missions. Each of the following 5 Skills may be maxed out to 200, but the players total spendable EXP/Skill Points cap out at 500.
INTelligence This determines how many items your ability to hide, your ability to find hidden players. This also affects DP and ROP.
STRength This determines how much melee damage you do, how long you can hold someone in a grapple or be held in one, and other possible in game uses. 1/2 STR = base melee damage, say from a punch or a kick. This also affects HP.
SPEed This determines how many coordinates (out of Encounter) or meters (in Encounter) you can move on foot without getting tired and or per turn. This also affects OP, EP and Initiative.
STAMina This determines how quickly you can recover after moving your max coordinate spaces before you can move again. Your HP also naturally recovers by Stamina/Day. This also affects HP, DP, EP, OP, and ROP.
WILL This determines, well, your determination, the strength of your spirit… This affects your ability to use and resist Genjutsu and may affect other Jutsu or situations as well. This also affects your Chakra Pool.
Health Points This is equal to (Str+Sta)x2. This determines how much damage you can take before you are Knocked Out or Killed. This recovers by Stamina/Day, or (Sta+2)/Hour, unless in your village, where medical nin will fully heal you within 24 hours.
Defensive Points: This is equal to (Int+Sta) and determines how much damage you can block before you start losing HP. This is lowered by will be damage in place of HP. If you are only threatened with status effects, but no damage, you may not use DP to Block. Your Natural DP recovers automatically after encounters/missions. Temporary DP granted by Items, Object, Armor, and certain Techniques must take dame equal to or greater than their current amount, (taking a minimum of 1 damage if damage meets), to lower, reducing the would be damage by it's current amount.
Evasion Points This is equal to (Int+Spd) and determines how much damage you can dodge before you start losing HP, lowering from dodging OP or ROP. This also affects Initiative. Your EP recovers automatically after encounters/missions.
CHakra Pool (Int+Sta+Will) equals how much chakra your body holds. You spend Chakra to perform most Jutsu, as well other possible techniques. If your chakra were to become negative for any reason, it would also reduce your HP. This recovers by Will/Day, or (Will+2)/Hour, unless in your village, where medical nin will fully recover your Chakra within 24 hours.
Offensive Points This is equal to (Speed+Stamina)/2. This can be affected by traits or even Jutsu, as well as situational circumstances or status effects. This is how much EP your target must spend to counter a melee attack.
Ranged OP This is equal to (Int+Sta)/2 and adds to ROP or Length of mid/long ranged weapons or attacks such as Jutsu, as well as equal to their effective range in meters.
INTiative This is equal to (EP+OP) and determines turn or action order in the case of multiple parties or conflicting actions, deciding what action or player occurred or attacks first, second, third, etc. Those with Initiatives multiple higher get to take multiple turns in the same round, before those with less, ie, someone with Initiative: 100 is fighting someone with Initiative: 50, they get 2 turns (1 action per turn), where the other person only gets 1 turn. When fighting in groups, it will look like this: A=100, B=50 vs C=100. (A,C,B). C gets 2 actions, B gets 1 action. The number of turns is determined downward from the highest initiative, not upward from the lowest. Those actions are split into turns, so the fighters are all limited to what they can normally do in a single round or distance they can travel between their turns, and limited to 1 action per turn. In the other scenario, Turn order would look like this: C>A>B>C>A>B.
Jutsu Score There are 7 classes of trainable, useable Ninja techniques, these are called Jutsu. Your Village gives you 10 assigned points, your clan offers bonuses and penalties for some, and you begin with 5 points of your own to spend freely. These Jutsu Scores raise naturally by 1 point for every 10 Jutsu (2 min minimum) written using them. The total sum of your Jutsu Scores would be documented as your “Chakra Control”. It should be noted Jutsu are worth more or less depending on their rank, E-Rank Jutsu: 1 Jutsu Slot, D-Rank Jutsu: 3 Jutsu Slots, C-Rank Jutsu: 5 Jutsu Slots, B-Rank Jutsu: 10 Jutsu Slots, A-Rank Jutsu: 15 Jutsu Slots, S-Rank Jutsu: 20 Jutsu Slots.
Ninjutsu Techniques that are performed by molding chakra in a variety of physical ways, mostly elemental.
Genjutsu Techniques that rather than physical hazards, manipulate or fool the targets mind via illusions.
Taijutsu These techniques do not require the use of chakra by default and may be learned and used by any. These techniques are strictly martial arts, hand to hand combat.
Fuinjutsu A special form of brush techniques, ninja write special calligraphic seals to perform a variety of things, most commonly sealing larger things into a confined space, or summoning them from.
Iryojutsu Simply put, this refers to your ability to heal yourself or others via any method able. This requires practice and a comprehensive understanding of the body.
Bukijutsu Rather than learnable techniques, Bukijutsu, as well as the following, are raised simply by doing. This is honed by using simple, basic, weaponry and tools.
Kenjutsu Very similar to Bukijutsu, Kenjutsu refers to the use of more advanced or specialized weaponry, like swords.
When your “Potential” (Experience+Chakra Control) reaches 100, you qualify for the Chunin exams! Succeeding allows you to become a Chunin, failing allows free entry into the next Chunin exams. Once your Potential reaches 200, and you are a Chunin, you will be given a special mission, leading a team of Genin, promoting you to Jonin! 500 potential recognizes you as a special Jonin who is respected highly among their direct peers, but not quite legendary. By 1000 Potential, you are a Legendary Shinobi and allowed to apply for the position of a Kage, in which you must challenge a current Kage before a Daimyo and their Advisor and gain their permission to form your own village/unclaimed village within said Daimyo’s country.
Shinobi Ranks
25–99 Potential = Genin 100+ (but yet to pass Chunin exams) = Special Genin (Genin+) 100–199 = Chunin 200+ (Before Proctoring Chunin Exams) = Special Chunin (Chunin+) 200–499 (After Proctoring Chunin Exams) = Jonin 500–999 = Special Jonin (Jonin+) 500–999 NPC = Special Jonin (Anbu) 500+ = Advisor (Kage’s Aid) 1000+ (Not Village Leader) = Legendary Shinobi / Sannin (If Sage) 1000+ (Village Leader) = Kage
Your rank directly affects what Missions you may perform.
Those who are approved to NPC missions will earn the title on their profile of “Anbu”. When those with the Anbu (NPC), Advisor (Curator), or Daimyo (Leader) title NPC for missions, they receive reward equal to 25% of the total ryo and EXP, which they may distribute amongst any of their characters.
⟦ PVP ⟧ If OP or ROP takes your EP past 0, use what was left over to take away from Damage. ie, 15 Damage, 10 OP, 5 EP left. OP takes away your EP, so you do get hit, but because you had 5 EP, only take 10 damage instead of 15. This is true with surplus damage going past your DP.
If you use your EP or DP but do not have enough to counter the full attack, reduce the damage by any remaining points you had. If the previous situation happens and you would have suffered one status effect, you may trade it for a different one, other than for Poison or Burn. If you would have suffered multiple status effects, you may ignore one. If the leftover EP and or DP completely voided damage, you must take a status effect other than Poison or Burn.
To run away from/Escape an encounter you must meet two conditions. You must run away for at least 100 meters and spend at least 3 turns in running away.
PVP is allowed, but will only offer Jutsu points, no EXP.
When HP hits 0, you may be Knocked Out or Killed at the discretion of the one who took your HP to 0 and or depending if the damage was lethal or non-lethal.
When in an encounter, each round is 6 seconds. When out of an encounter, anything that relies on “rounds” will use it in minutes instead. When in an encounter, anything that relies on “minutes” will be equal to 10 Rounds.
⟦ Special Movement ⟧ Round 1 Meter to 3 Feet.
Land Speed When in an encounter and trying to judge range, treat your “Speed” Trait as your Land speed equal “Speed” meters per Minute/Round. This cannot be abused to attack someone then run out of range. If not in an encounter, “Speed”x2 = miles/coordinates one can move before needing to recover. This is mostly used for very specific situations or events.
Swimming A players Swim Speed = 1.5 “Speed” meters per minute/round. 1/4th “Stamina” determines how many rounds you can hold your breath. After this, you start “Suffocating”.
Jumping Your Jumping Distance = 40% “Speed” in feet jumped standing. This is doubled if with a running start. One’s Jumping Height would be 160% of your speed in inches, or doubled if with a running start. You may use your action to have an ally assist your jump, adding half their strength to your speed to increase jump Height/Distance.
Climbing One’s Climb Distance/Speed would be 1.5 “Speed” meters per Minute/Round. This quite obviously must be done on a climbable surface.
Digging The size of a hole you may dig, in a diggable surface such as the dirt, is equal (Speed+Strength)=10 inches per Round. The size would be assumed as a cubic like area with equal dimensions. Damage from Weapons or DP from Gear may be added to your “Dig” score to increase your digging ability.
⟦ Falling ⟧ When you fall, you take incrementally raised damage for every 10 ft fallen. Fall damage is halved when landing in water. A shinobi will not suffer fall damage when jumping and falling from their own natural jump height.
| Distance | Damage | Effects | | 10 ft | 3 | — | | 20 ft | 6 | T1 Prone | | 30 ft | 9 | T2 Prone, 1 Temp Disabled Limb | | 40 ft | 15 | T3 Prone, 2 Temp Disabled Limb | | 50 ft | 24 | T4 Prone, 3 Temp Disabled Limb | | 60 ft | 39 | T5 Prone, 4 Temp Disabled Limb | | 70 ft | 63 | T6 Prone, 1 Disabled Limb | | 80 ft | 102 | T7 Prone, 2 Disabled Limb, T1 Bleed | | 90 ft | 165 | T8 Prone, 3 Disabled Limb, T2 Bleed | | 100 ft | 267 | T9 Prone, 4 Disabled Limb, T3 Bleed |
⟦ Special Combat Rules ⟧ (Integrated verbatim from submission: Stealth/Surprise, Half Stealth, Half Action, Grapples, Suffocating, Bleeding, Poisoned, Burning, Deafened, Blinded, Disabled, Knockback, Prone, Stunned, Unconscious, Shocked, Frostbite, Prepared Action, Prepared Counter, Take the Hit, Take Cover, Size and Height.)

>Special Combat Actions<
Stealth: If a shinobi is able to remain fully undetected, or via effect of some technique, the status of "Stealth" prevents them from being targeted until teor presense becomes known and allows them to strike directly, ignoring the natural EP and DP of their target! "Half-Stealth", similar to stealth, requires one's exact position to illude their target, however, their presense is known or reasonably suspected, temporarily increasing their own natural EP, OP, DP, and ROP by 50%, (any remaining natural DP and or EP is to be reduced by 50% once uncovered and the status of "Stealth/Half-Stealth" are lost.)

Half-Actions: using "Half-Actions" allow the Shinobi essentially perform 2 seperate actions instead of their usual single action, however, the effects of each action or split in half, (rounded up). Certain techniques may even take this concept further, increasing the number of the techniques instances at equivalently reduced effect per. "Half-Counters" follow similar terms, allowing the stacking of two seperate techniques, but each at halved effect.

Prepared Actions: By forgoing their turn's alloted "Action", (or Half-Actions), shinobi are able to prepare their specific actions to trigger later under specific conditions they set them to. An example would be "preparing" a punch against an enemy that is to far away at the moment, set to throw said punch the moment the target is within range of their strike. "Prepared Counters", as logic follows, allows one to set a specific counter to be triggered under a specific condition at the cost of forgoing theor turn's action, halving the effect of what is being countered if it triggers the set conditions of the prepared counter. These prepared actions/counters must be triggered sometime before their next turn or will instead expire.

Take-the-Hit: Under the condition a Shinobi COULD reduce or evade the effects of an action that would otherwise affect themselves, but instead choose not to and just "Take-the-Hit", they can reduce the effects by 10% and convert that number into temporary EP, DP, OP, ROP, or even Damage to be used by their next turn or otherwise expire. Taking the hit has an added benifit to ignore 1 status condition that would have otherwise been suffered, and or exchange 1 status condition for another such as if they would otherwise suffer more than 1 single effect. Exempt status conditions would be Bleeding, Frostbite, Burn, or Poison, which instead can be reduced by 1 Tier but not to 0T.

Take Cover: At times, when the chips are down, and the Shinobi is out of cards, they must use the environment to their advantage. The world is filled with miscellaneous items and objects, to passé or average to be granted their own stat block, yet exsist all the same, therefore may be used to one's advantage, within reason, (determined by a Moderator if necessary). Objects in your environment, such as particularily large stones or dining tables within reach may be used to grant the Shinobi a +5 Temporary DP to defend themselves with, breaking the coverage once expended. Perhaps the table or stone are fragmented by some offending attack, the Shinobi may grab a shard to use offensively, treated as an item with a value of 3 stat points, such as the <Sharp> attribute or <+2dmg,+1DP>.

High Ground: Clever, well positioned Shinobi may use the environment to their advantage by finding purchase on a signifigantly higher vantage point over their target. Doing so increases damage and distance of ranged attacks equal to half of the fall damage equal to the height. The drawback is the Damage, ROP, and range reduce by the same rules if extending past the base ROP of the attack, and falls straight down after passing the maximum range. There are creatures, and methods for shinobi via certain techniques, that grow to be quite large aswell who gain the benifit of adding fall damage to their melee attacks following the same rules and adding their size to the OP and range of their melee attacks!

Knockback: If one hits another with sufficiant force and or the intention of pushing them back, or by the effect of some techniques, the target may be "Knocked Back".the distance varries by the situation, the target could be knocked back "Feet" equal to damage, or half if blocked, or half of the distance traveled, (quarter if blocked), of the moving "object" that impacts them, or be carried X distance determined by the technique/jutsu they were struck by. If moved by a "Knockback" unguarded or unevaded, the subject is also knocked "Prone"

<Status Conditions>
Prone: There are a few ways to aquire the "Prone" condition, via targeted attack made with such intent, effect of some Jutsu, or even by choosing to lay prone for your own reasons, but simply put, being Prone essentially leaves the subject off balance and floored, cutting their Speed, EP, OP, and Damage by half as long as they remain in disequilibrium and grounded. The Tier of the effect, T1-T10, will determine how many rounds, (6 seconds pass per round), one is prone for. Simply expending half your available movement per round however, one may remove 1 Tier of Prone during their turn. It should also be noted, if one would otherwise gain +1T of prone while already T10 Prone, they will also gain 1 Tier of the "Stunned" condition...

Stunned: When one becomes bound in place, unable to react, they are considered "Stunned". This can occur by reaching 10 Tiers of "Prone", "Shocked", and or "Frostbite", this can also occur directly as effects of certain techniques/jutsu if not guarded against or evaded. Subjects who are "Stunned" have their movement speed dropped to 0 and are left unable to guard, evade, counter, or perform any actions, in most cases, they may only be able to speak. The duration is typically determined by rounds equal to the Tiered levels of the condition, although certain techniques or circumstances may specify different durations.

Unconcious: To be unconcious is simply that, the afflicted is no longer concious, leaving them fully vulnerable and helpless. Excluding one's natural sleep cycle this is most commonly afflicted in combat by the subjects HP dropping to 0 via non-leathal damage, however, there are techniques and even certain items /drugs that may specify a different duration. The subject remains "Unconcious" until at least 10% of their HP is restored, the specified effect time of what caused it expires, or they are forced ro consciousness otherwise by some technique or effect.

Disabled Limbs: If struck by an attack with the intent of disabling a limb, such as leaving it temporarily unusable or restrained, it is considered disabled. The Disabled condition is temporary, lasting rounds, (6 seconds per), equal to the Tier level, however, the limb will become Broken if it reaches Tier 10, leaving it disabled until healed/repaired. A direct, unblockable strike with the intent may also choose to break the Limb, or even Sever i, leaving it disabled unless somehow re-attached and healed while also causing 3 Tiers of "Bleed" per severed limb... The debuff of a disabled limb depends on the limb disabled. Using the standard of two legs and two arms, each Disabled Arm would leave the individual unable to use any weapons or items or abilities requiring the arm's/hand's ability to move as well as reducing Damage, EP, DP, OP, and ROP with that arm by 50%, and Total Natural Strength and Stamina by 25%, which would also Effect their Natural EP, DP, OP, ROP, and Damage in turn. Each Disabled Leg would render said leg unusable and cut that Leg's Damage, EP, DP, OP, and ROP with that Leg by 50%, and the subjects total Stamina, Strength, and Speed by 20%, also leaving the user Prone if both legs are disabled until they are healed.

Deaf: One may be "Deafened", or lose their hearing, by a direct targeted attack with such intention to their ear(s) or technique effect, cutting there auditory perceptive range/ability by 50% per ear, granting actions against them they could otherwise hear coming as Stealth (or "Half-Stealth" if "Half-Deaf"). This is typically a temporary condition lasting rounds equal to Rounds per Tier, or until whatever effect causing the condition passes, unless more permanent damage is recieved.

Blind: One may be "Blinded", or lose their eyesight, by a direct targeted attack with such intention to their eye(s) or technique effect, cutting there visual perceptive range/ability by 50% per eye, granting actions against them they could otherwise see coming as Stealth (or "Half-Stealth" if "Half-Blind") aswell grant the Stealth/Half-Stealth status protections from them to other would be targets of theirs. This is typically a temporary condition lasting rounds equal to Rounds per Tier, or until whatever effect causing the condition passes, unless more permanent damage is recieved.

Grappled: Combat is not always strickly engaged by strikes alone, instead it is very common to instead find one's self engaged is "Grappling" struggle, or find themselves entangled or ensnared by some trap. When such situations occur, there is typically the "Grappled" and the "Grappler". The Grappled remains as such unless released or for rounds equal to the number of times their own Strength would need to multiply to surpass the Grappling force, unable to break out of this grapple their first attempt however unless their strength doubles that of their grappler. This stacking "Strength" integer accumilating per round  requires an action to be used for struggle, increasing only by half of rheir strength if deciding to use a half action attempting to break free, and a seperate half action for other purposes. All attack damage made by the Grappled and Grappler ignore Natural EP and OP, but are reduced by half, aswell as their movement speed, and they are unuable to use Jutsu that would require theor hands/arms to form if otherwise being used to maintain or break free from the grapple. Ultimately however, it is the grappler in control who each turn may for the Grappled Prone, or target specific limbs to restrain, temporarily treating them as Disabled, even breaking them if the Target's natural DP is 0, further increasing the difficulty of breaking free, or even grip around their throat, causing "Suffication". The Grappler is even able to manipulate the Grappled subject as a sort of human shield, using their Temp DP granted by thinngs such as Armor if applicable and or HP as DP to protect themselves from any incoming attacks. On turn the Grappled would otherwise be able to break free, if an amount equal to half their strength surpasses the bar required for freedom, they may insted reverse the grapple, becoming the grappler instead.

Suffocating: When one is unable to breath, they instead begin to "Sufforcate". Such cases would be if one was submerged in water or burried in dirt and may no longer hold their breath, where 1/4th “Stamina” determines how many rounds you can hold your breath. Another situation would be if being choked, immediately instigating the Suffocating condition. While sufficating, the subject loses 1%HP on their first turn, 2% on their next turn, etc etc indefinitely until they are able to breath once more.

Bleeding: If struck directly by a "Sharp" object, projectile, or weapon, the aubject will begin to bleed, and continue bleeding until their wound is attended to! Each Tier of Bleeding, T1-T10, removes 1%-10% of the victims HP per round, causing them to lose 1-2oz of blood. By spending an action, one may wrap up the wound with cloth of some sort, emoving 1Tier of bleeding, any further Tiers must be removed by medical Items or Techniques. 

Poisoned: If one is wounded by, injected with, or inhales "Poison",(or Venem), they recieve 1 Tier of "Poisoned". Each Tier of Poison, T1-T10, removes 1%-10% of the victims HP per round. Poison must be removed via medical treatment, be it by medicinal items such as Antidotes, or by Medical Jutsu.

Burned: Burning can take three different forms and is Tiered at levels T1-T10;
-Burn(Lit), Burn(Unlit), Burn(Acid). Lit Burns are caused by being covered in living, burning, flames, which increase the Burn Tier by +1 each round it remains lit, removing 1%HP/Tier/Round. One may use half their movement speed to roll on the ground putting it out, or douse themselves in a sufficient amount of water, (1 pint per Tier). 
-Putting out a Lit Burn still leaves an Unlit Burn, where the subject suffers the Tier level of damage only when struck. The burn victim may spend an action to remove 1T of Burn by wrapping it in some sort of cloth, further Tiers must be removed by Medical Items or Techniques. 
-Acidic Burns, caused by acidic substances or certain techniques, act the same way as Lit Burns, continuing to worsen until the acidic substance is removed, requiring 1 Action per Tier removed, and leaving behind Unlit Burns.

Shocked: Most commonly caused by Lightning Natured Jutsu given the rarity of being struck by real lighting. "Shocked" is a unique condition as it more so acts as a conduit to other conditions,  and typically it's Tier is directly determined by the power of the technique causing it instead of growing over time, unless one finds themself exposed to a constant stream of electrical current over time. Targeting specific limbs with Shocking techniques will disable those limbs for rounds equal to the Tier of Shock, direct Shocks to the head or Torso will instead cause Tiers of Prone, and every 2 Tiers of Shock will leave 1T of Unlit Burns until T10 causing flamable targets to go up in flames and and leave them 1T Stunned!

Frostbite: Requiring the coldest, freezing conditions, or even techniques unique to some of the rarest bloodlines, Frostbite is a terrifying condition,  killing you slowly while making it more and more difficult to survive. If left underdressed or without adequate warmth or resistance in a freezing environment, the subject will paddivley gain 1T of Frostbite every Minute, (60 Seconds/10 rounds), exposed, likewise, one may spend 1 Minute with sufficient warmth per Tier to recover from the condition. Each Tier of Frostbite reduces the subject's Speed and Stamina by 5%, every 5T Disables a Limb, but most perhaps most fightening, at T10, the victim begins accumulating 1T Prone and 1T Burn(Acid) per round, until they slowly Freeze to death... There are also techniques available to few that may expidite these conditions, able to Disable limbs, or cause Frost Burns, or even suffocate their targets with direct attacks!

⟦ Rule Zero ⟧ Rule Zero, also known as GM fiat, is the common RPG rule that the GM has the ultimate say in all rules matters...

⟦ Extra / Amendments ⟧ (Max characters, cross-clan limits, EXP invite reward, moderation rules, jutsu scaling caps, rebirth, retirement, village population scaling, cheating, and art usage rules integrated.)